Acd 947 (#83)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: EDI/Operation/07_PrepareWorkflow.md

[!!Manage workflows](../../ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/01_ManageWorkflows.md)

# Prepare workflow

Extend your workflows by adding an action to export the EDIFACT messages. To do this, use a workflow that processes the business document you want to transfer to your EDIFACT message receiver, for example an invoice or a delivery note. 

To integrate the export to the workflow, you need to insert an

> *Execute PHP code* core action. For detailed information on this core action, see [Execute PHP code](../../ActindoWorkFlow/UserInterface/08_CoreActions.md#execute-php-code) in the *Process Orchestration* docmentation. You can insert this action at any position in the workflow in which you have access to the required business document data. Bear in mind that if any errors that occur after the EDIFACT export and before posting for subsequent processes can lead to data inconsistencies that need to be cleaned up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Execute PHP code* core action. For detailed information on this core action, see [Execute PHP code](../../ActindoWorkFlow/UserInterface/08_CoreActions.md#execute-php-code) in the *Process Orchestration* documentation. You can insert this action at any position in the workflow in which you have access to the required business document data. Bear in mind that if any errors that occur after the EDIFACT export and before posting for subsequent processes can lead to data inconsistencies that need to be cleaned up.
```

The following example shows how to export a delivery note via an export definition.

#### Prerequisites

- You are familiar with the configuration of workflows. For detailed information, see [Manage the workflows](../../ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/01_ManageWorkflows.md) in the *Process Orchestration* documentation. 

> - The export definition is activated, see [Activate definition](01_ManageDefinitions.md#activate-definition).

Reviewer: Link geht nicht: (./01_ManageDefinitions.md#activate-definition)

Author: Soll auch nicht, sondern in Manage definition

- Your workflow processes the business document (for example, the invoice) for which you have created the EDIFACT export definition. 

#### Procedure

*Workflow > Select workflow > Select version*

![Workflow versions](../../Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/WorkflowEditor.png "[Workflow editor]")

1. Select a place with which the entity is provided that you want to export with the EDIFACT message.

2. Add an *Execute PHP code* core action.

    ![Add Execute PHP code](../../Assets/Screenshots/EDI/Operation/WorkflowExecutePHPCode.png "[Add Execute PHP code]")

3. Enter a label in the *Label* field with which you can easily identify the purpose of this action, for example **Export to Customer 2**.

4. Click the *PHP code* field in the *Configuration* section of the action settings.   

>     A pop-up window for editing the PHP code is displayed.

Reviewer: A window for editing...
(Pass auf: A pop-up window is a window that is automatically displayed by the system containing a message information. The pop-up window is automatically faded out after a certain time. The pop-up window does not require any action by the user. -> aus dem Style Guide)

Author: Done

> 

Reviewer: Kann man einen kurzen Einführungssatz zum Screenshot hinzufügen, als Erklärung?
Vorschlag: 
5. Insert the following lines of code (example).
  [code block]
  
  Explanation 
  [table]
  
  If correctly formatted. the code is displayed as follows: 
  
    [Screenshot]

Author: Done

    ![PHP code input window](../../Assets/Screenshots/EDI/Operation/WorkflowPHPInputWindow.png "[PHP code input window]")

5. Insert the following lines of code (example).

    ```
    <?php
 
    $deliveryNote = $in0;
    $exportController = new \Actindo\Modules\Actindo\DataHubExporter\ExportController();
    $exportRequest = new  \Actindo\Modules\Actindo\DataHubExporter\Request\ExportRequest(4);   
    $exportRequest->connectionIds = []; 
    $exportRequest->definitionId = ;    
    $exportRequest->entityId = $in0->getId();
    $exportRequest->entityClass = /Actindo\Core\Database\ClassUtils::getRealClass(get_class($in0));  
    $exportController->export($exportRequest);
    return [$in0];
    ```
    ![PHP code example](../../Assets/Screenshots/EDI/Operation/WorfflowPHPCodeExample.png "[PHP code example]")

    **Explanation**
    |php code | Meaning |
    |--------|----|
    |<?php|PHP's opening tag     |

>     |$deliveryNote = $in0;| Type of the entity that is to be exported (e.g. business document type that have been loaded at the start point and is input in *in0* input port), see the *Order Management* module for information on type <!---Stimmt das?-->|

Author: done

    |$exportController = new \Actindo\Modules\Actindo\DataHubExporter\ExportController();| Get exporter|
    | $exportRequest = new \Actindo\Modules\Actindo\DataHubExporter\Request\ExportRequest(4);|Create new export request|  

>     |$exportRequest->connectionIds = [];| List of connection ID(s) (comma-separated)|

Reviewer: Ist es möglich, mehr als eine Verbindung? Im Beispiel, nur ein ID, daher meine Frage.
Wenn mehrere Verbindungen möglich, vielleicht: List of connections ID(s) (if more than one connection, comma separated)

Author: Steht in der Tabelle drin, das hier ist die Kopiervorlage

>     |$exportRequest->definitionId = []; | ID of the export definition, for example, $exportRequest->definitionId = 112;|

Reviewer: Gehört hier auch die Klammer []? Kann man hier mehr als ein definitionId oder nur eine? Code in explanation table weicht vom Code in code block oben leicht (eckige Klammern) ab.

Author: es sollte nur eine definition sein..

>     |$exportRequest->entityId = $in0->getId(); | Primary identifier of the entity that is to be exported (e.g. business document that have been loaded at the start point and is input in *in0* input port).|

Reviewer: business document that has been loaded...

Author: done

    |$exportRequest->entityClass = \Actindo\Core\Database\ClassUtils::getRealClass(get_class($in0));| Type of the entity (class name) input in *in0* input port|
    |return [$in0];| end of input
     

>    5. Click the [Apply changes] button in the buttom right corner.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click the [APPLY CHANGES] button in the bottom right corner.   
```
Achtung, Einrückung zu weit. Ab hier, auch umnummerieren.
